Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Oh. God.
What? What's up?
It's...
What?
I just got an email
from Deputy Chief Reid.
He wants me to write
up a massive new
OCD training program
and then implement it
by the end of next week.
Wait. hold on.
That's when our
guest list is due.
You send yours to the planner?
No. no. no. not yet.
It's something like 80
people already. give or take.
Give or take?
Who are you not inviting?
Hi. Caeli.
I'm sorry to hear that.
No. sure. we got it.
Feel better.
All right. that
was Caeli Waters.
- Who's...
- Mack's friend Brittney's mom.
Yeah. yeah. no. I know.
She's sick. so we
are now covering
dance class pickup duty.
That woman cannot catch a break.
She catches everything
that Brittney brings home.
Wait. hold on.
what am I thinking?
We gotta pick up Mack.
You got this thing now.
Who's gonna meet with the
contractor about the roof?
I thought that was tomorrow.
No. I... I switched it.
It's still leaking.
I swear I told you.
- You didn't tell me.
- I swear to God. I told you.
- You did not tell me.
- I told you.
You did not tell me.
I'll call him.
All right. I think
that's right.
Ah. I hate fractions.
You're never gonna
use this in real life.
So why do I have to do them?
Because it's on the
test. bumblebee.
You gotta pass the test.
Hey. now. I see that.
Hey. Mack. I'm starting
to lose my patience here.
This is Adam.
Hey. Mike.
Well. what's wrong with it?
Okay. yeah. I understand.
I'll talk to him.
How's he doing today?
Well. I appreciate it.
I'll talk to you tomorrow.
Okay.
Dad's facility. He
wants a new room.
You got him the best room there.
Yeah. well. he wants
to be back in the room
with a view of the palm trees.
Oh. still thinks
he's in Florida?
I'll talk to him.
What is that? What is that?
I think it's Joey next door.
He's practicing for his high
school battle of the bands.
You remember.
- Oh. my God.
I didn't even know battle of
the bands was still a thing.
Yeah. it's still a thing.
He wants to win too.
Remember his dad brought
that bottle of wine by
as a peace offering to make
sure we didn't shut him down.
This is unbelievable.
I'm going to that
diner down the block.
and I'm gonna work there. okay?
Okay. All right.
Bring back pie.
You want pie?
- Yeah.
Two pies.
Thank you.
More where that came from.
Just give me a shout.
Yeah.
Look. I know that's your
baby. but she'll be fine.
We raised her better than that.
Kelly. come on.
- I'm just saying...
- Coffee. no milk.
She used to call more often.
- Coming right up.
- It's normal.
She's growing up.
All right. You finished?
What? Yeah. yeah.
I'll keep that.
- All right. no problem.
Thanks.
These mushrooms taste
like cat litter.
I'll get you another one.
It's fine.
The problem is. you
don't like it. Neal.
You never liked it.
It's not your order.
Could I get another
coffee. please?
- Yeah. coming right up.
- Yeah. thanks.
Oh. thanks.
You need any more. just shout.
It's not a goddamn
L. Plenty of room.
Excuse me.
Do you have an extra
pen I could borrow?
Oh. um...
yeah. I do.
I do.
Are you studying too?
No. I'm police. Chicago PD.
Oh. nice.
Yeah. What about you?
What are you studying?
Ancient history.
I know. it's a
useless major. right?
But I'm obsessed.
Good for you.
Okay.
Special order.
For the birthday girl.
All right. Finished?
- Yeah. thank you.
- Of course.
Hey. Just one more day.
That's not how it works.
All right? No one gets
out clean and easy.
Hey. keep your voice down.
Hey. this is
Detective Kim Burgess.
I'm looking for some
clarity on House Bill 2249.
Yes. I know how late it is.
That's okay. I can wait.
All right.
Great.
Run!
What's going on?
Wait. what's going on?
Someone just shot up the diner!
This is off-duty
detective Kim Burgess.
badge number 22963.
Intelligence.
I have a civilian
claiming the diner
on Cermak and Lowe
has been shot up.
Approaching on foot.
I'm staying on the line.
Call's bona fide.
I'm entering the premises.
Kim?
Five DOAs. all
9-millimeter GSWs.
Lots of shell casings.
Techs found a .45 and a shell
that fell under the table.
Best guess. one of the victims
tried to fire at the shooter.
but none of them
have tested positive
for gunshot residue yet. so.
- Cameras?
- No.
But it doesn't look
like a robbery.
The cash register is still full.
and none of their
pockets were rabbited.
Wallets are all still here.
Hmm.
There's no close
contact wounds. but...
several of them had their
hands out in front of them.
like they were trying
to reason or beg.
I don't know.
You caught it?
Yeah.
I've been coming here a lot.
The house has been busy.
Mm.
It's been a quiet place to work.
Huh.
Sarge. the only witness we have
is the pedestrian
that ran into Burgess.
Said he didn't hear the shots.
He just looked inside.
saw what was going on.
and ran off like hell.
Let's clear him just in case.
Yes. sir. It's in the works.
Okay. good.
So check PODs. cams.
and do a deep dive
into every victim.
Look. if this wasn't a robbery.
that means one of the
victims was the target.
We get the why.
we'll find the who.
- Sir.
- Get your hands off me.
Sir. I need you to step back.
- Hell is going on?
- Sir. I need you to step back.
- Where's my wife?
- Sir! Step back!
Sir. are you Marge's husband?
- Yeah.
- Okay. I'm Detective Burgess.
Marge was shot. and
she didn't make it.
- Oh. my God.
- I'm gonna do everything I can
to find out what happened. okay?
- Please. Please.
- Sir.
Sir. okay. sir.
listen to my voice.
- Please.
- I know. Calm down.
Please. Detective.
Please. Please.
That's my wife.
Please. Detective. please.
Please.
Please. Detective.
All right. Sarge. we've been
digging into the victims...
all walks of life.
all different reasons
how they ended up at the diner.
Any of them could have had
a target on their back.
but we don't know the
why or the who yet.
So I'ma start with
the employees.
This is Rodney Chambers.
He was the cook.
Recent graduate from
the Art Institute...
no sheet. nothing suspicious.
He has a lot of fans
on social media.
Just a guy living his dream.
- Okay.
- This is Sam Lugo.
He was the busboy.
Venezuelan immigrant.
He worked two other jobs
just to pay the rent.
He doesn't have a sheet either.
His mom knew he was exhausted.
actually asked him
to call in sick.
Kiana?
The final employee
is Marge Kaminski.
Night manager and waitress.
She has worked at that
diner for over 20 years.
She would pick up double shifts
just to make their mortgage.
And she's clean too. No priors.
And this is Gabriel Basco.
Now. he has a sheet.
He ran with a crew
called the Puentes.
and he did a two-year stint
in Stateville for distro.
got out in '19. but
seems like he stayed
on the straight and narrow.
His PO said that he
checked in like clockwork.
got a job with Streets and San.
And this is our youngest
victim. Kristine Day.
She went by Krissy.
DePaul University student.
She's an out-of-stater from
Ohio. lived in the dorms.
straight As.
She was studying
ancient history.
I talked to her a few times.
Same with Marge. same with
Sam. and they all seemed nice.
Nothing suspicious.
Hmm.
You cross with either
Basco or Chambers?
No. no. They were
just always there.
There was a couple other
regulars that came and went.
Anybody stand out?
There was a guy named...
guy named Neal. I think.
He was... I mean.
he complained a lot.
but Marge knew
how to handle him.
He seemed harmless.
Anything else jump out?
To warrant mass murder? No.
All right. I got something.
OCD lab got into
Gabriel Basco's phone.
It's been receiving
threatening texts from a burner
with no subscriber profile.
"Puentes don't forget.
Pay up or die."
And every time Basco was
pinched. he was carrying a .45.
Caliber of choice.
So Basco owed somebody
from his former crew.
obviously didn't pay up.
Whoever that somebody is
pulled up to the diner.
won a shoot-out with Basco.
and killed the witnesses.
Run it.
Find me who that someone is.
Nah. man. I got nothing on
this burner that texted Basco.
Well. place of purchase?
It was a small
drugstore. so no cams.
There's no digital footprint.
no other texts of note.
Hardly any calls.
Phone's been off
since the murders.
Well. let me go talk to
somebody in the Gang Unit.
They might have a
lead on an enforcer
that could have made this hit.
- Mm.
And I'll call Stateville.
run Basco's cellies.
- Okay. good.
- All right. what do you need?
To work this case.
that's all I need.
All right.
What else do you
remember about Basco?
Was he always alone?
I don't know. maybe.
I was compartmentalizing. Adam.
I was focusing on
the work for Reid.
so I wasn't really
paying attention.
I didn't notice
anything because I
turned my cop brain off.
You couldn't do
that if you tried.
- I did.
- Kim.
- All right. come on.
I'm not going home.
That's not where we're going.
Come on. I got an idea.
Okay.
Hey. Officer.
Thanks.
Hey. you guys mind giving
us the scene for a sec?
Thanks.
You noticed a lot. Kim.
I guarantee it.
You just have to remember.
All right. so you
sat here every night?
- Yup.
- All right. And Basco?
He sat in the same
booth. too. right there.
All right. good.
Okay. what else?
Any smells?
The guy a smoker?
He was on his phone a lot.
Okay. Was he always alone?
I d...
You're sitting there.
You're working.
They bring you a new cup
of coffee. so you look up.
You see Basco over
there on his phone.
Just separate the nights. okay?
Was he wearing the same jacket?
No.
He was wearing a leather
jacket one of the nights.
And he was with someone.
Hey. just one more day.
That's not how it works.
All right? No one gets
out clean and easy.
Hey. keep your voice down.
Okay.
I don't think this
guy was happy.
They were arguing.
What'd the guy look like?
20s. Latino. very tall.
I glanced up at the plates.
Yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. I
remember that now. Disco Bob.
- What?
- DB. Disco Bob.
I remember thinking of
your dad because those were
the letters on the plates.
Okay. so... so this guy
who was arguing with Basco.
he walked out.
he got into a dark car.
and "DB" were on the plate.
This is from a hardware
store on South Parnell.
It's two blocks from the
diner. Third night in a row.
There's no car
flagged with a DB.
Okay. so he went the other way.
You got anything. Kev?
- I'm working it.
I'm working it.
I got a 7-Eleven on
West 43rd Street.
but the cameras
ain't clear enough
for me to see the traffic.
Lauridsen Park. did they
send you anything yet?
They claim they have.
but my inbox is empty.
Hold up. Bus cam
turning onto Parnell.
Four nights ago. 10:17 p.m.
Black Jeep. Kim. you ready?
- Go.
- 6. David. Boy. 8. 5. King.
I got a hit. I got a hit.
Car belongs to a Jose
Garcia. index member
of the Puentes gang
with a long sheet.
That's not how it works.
All right? No one gets
out clean and easy.
Hey. keep your voice down.
Just handle it. and we can
all be done. all right?
I think that's him.
He was the guy I was
telling you about
who was arguing with Basco.
He could have sent those texts.
That's motive.
He's got two prior
delivery busts
and a DUI pinch a month ago.
missed a court appearance.
He's got an active
bench warrant on him.
- Scoop his ass up right now.
- Let's go.
Do a drive-by first.
Check to see if he's home.
Copy you.
Whoa. whoa. whoa.
we got movement.
He's outside.
Well. don't let him go mobile.
Jam him in.
Copy that. He's
coming your way.
Out of the car! Hands
where I can see them!
Show me your hands!
Get out of the car!
He wants to see our badges.
Hey. hey. hey.
- Mira.
- Look. look. look.
- You see?
- Look.
I got him. Turn
your ass around.
Huh?
Hell is wrong with you?
And I know you speak
English. Garcia.
I found this in your trunk.
It's a match for the burner
that sent Gabriel Basco
threatening texts in English.
"Pay up or die."
You remember sending those?
And now Basco and four
other innocent people
are all dead.
massacred in a diner.
What?
No. no. you think I had
something to do with that?
I think you had
something to do with it.
- No. I didn't.
- You did.
You went there the night
before the murders.
You confronted Basco in person.
"Pay up or die." But
he didn't pay. did he?
So you went back the next night.
You went back.
- No. no. no.
Slow down. all right? He paid.
He paid up. Look. I
didn't kill anyone.
Oh. yeah? Where
were you that night?
Look. I... I took
my girlfriend
out to dinner with the 2
Gs Basco finally gave me.
I was on the other side
of town at Adalina's.
Look. there's cameras
all over that place.
You can check it.
Does Basco owe
anybody else money?
I doubt it.
Look. he's not running anymore.
You didn't notice that?
Dude's clean.
That stuff he owed me.
that's from two years ago.
All right? You're
looking at the wrong guy.
Yeah? What makes you say that?
That same night. I
saw a dude in a car
holding a piece in the dark.
What?
He was staring at the
diner. mumbling and cursing.
Look. that's what I remember.
He should be the
one here. not me.
What'd that guy look like?
Adam ran Garcia's
alibi. It checks out.
He's not the shooter.
But he may be our best witness.
Garcia saw a man holding
a gun in a dark sedan
staring at the diner.
His description matches one of
the regulars. a guy named Neal.
A rat wouldn't
drink from this cup.
I don't know his last name.
but he was always
sitting at the counter
and bitching about the service.
But he wasn't one
of the victims.
This could explain why.
if he's our shooter.
I talked to everybody
that worked at that diner.
Nobody knows Neal's last name.
- Credit card receipts?
Seems like he always used cash.
What about his car?
Still digging through cams.
but there's plenty of dark
ways to and from that diner.
I'm still waiting for
a cell tower dump.
We could get lucky.
- This is our guy.
I mean. he was a regular.
He was always there
during Marge's shift.
He sat outside. He
cased that place.
Okay. so keep digging.
Let's get an ID.
Yeah.
- Kim.
- Yeah.
I gotta go check on my dad.
That's fine.
Kiana. you wanna come with me?
- Sure.
You see this guy Neal
on his phone much?
No.
No. I only ever saw him
writing in a notebook
or bitching at Marge.
I don't even think I
saw him with a phone.
Mm.
Maybe Neal didn't have many
people depending on him.
Maybe didn't wanna be reached.
Yeah.
That doesn't help us.
No. it doesn't.
A rat wouldn't
drink from this cup.
You're in just as good a
mood as me tonight. Neal.
It's not a goddamn
L. Plenty of room.
These mushrooms taste
like cat litter.
- Kiana.
- Mm?
Come on.
What?
This was Neal's.
He always put it on his omelet.
He was here the night
of the shooting.
Hey. Kim.
Yeah?
We ID'd this spatter
as from Krissy.
But if Neal was here...
The blood could
have been from him.
Right.
He opens fire.
He gets shot by Basco.
Fled out the door.
Right.
Burgess.
Send that to me right now.
Yeah. Okay.
Yeah. that's right.
Thank you.
Kim?
- We found him.
- Neal?
Yeah. he was there the
night of the shooting.
and he was shot.
- Well. how do we know?
Well. the blood drops on
the ground had corrupt DNA
from cross-contamination.
I had techs run a
hot sauce bottle.
had Neal's prints on it.
So he was there.
and he was shot.
Techs are sending me
the results right now.
His full name is
Neal Andrew Rogers.
He's a retired public
school teacher.
That's why his
prints are on file.
And he lives two
miles from the diner.
Now. check this out.
Okay. so this is where
Neal was sitting.
He opens fire. He gets clipped.
That's his blood splatter.
It's possible he's our shooter.
got clipped by that .45.
- Yeah.
That .45 would've
left a big-ass wound.
Mm.
Could also have been a witness.
I mean. either way.
let's grab him up now.
Let's go.
All right.
This man was capable of mass
murder. and I didn't see it.
You can't see it. It
doesn't work like that.
Five people were
gunned down. Adam.
You were never gonna see
this guy was a killer.
no matter how
dialed-in you were.
We're trained to notice details.
And to read minds?
If you could do that.
we'd all be out of a job.
Okay?
You saw a guy
complain about food.
You don't make a leap from
that to... to mass murder.
You can't know what
someone else is thinking.
You can't know
what their life is.
Yeah. but I should
have seen something.
I've seen you before.
Chicago Police.
We wanna talk to you.
Neal. House is surrounded.
Oh. no.
Hey.
What's with that blood?
Something happen to you. Neal?
- Whoa. whoa. whoa.
- What happened to you. Neal?
- Hands up.
- Please.
- Hands up!
- You can't be in here. please.
- And this?
What's this?
What happened here. Neal?
What happened?
Did you kill all those people?
Marge. Sam. Basco?
Krissy was 19 years old.
She was 19.
I wasn't there.
You weren't there?
The hell is that?
What's that?
- Oh. please.
You weren't there.
Get him out of here.
Taking me out of here?
I didn't do anything.
No!
- You finished?
- Yeah.
These mushrooms taste
like cat litter.
I'll get you another one.
It's fine.
The problem is. you
don't like it. Neal.
You never liked it.
It's not your order.
We recovered Neal's
gun from his safe.
9-millimeter. fully
loaded. Ballistics has it.
They're putting a rush on it.
Okay. what else?
Recovered a jacket.
shoes. a shirt.
all with trace amounts
of blood on them.
He didn't even bother to wash.
So we'll put a rush
order on the DNA as well.
Well. he's refusing to talk.
Well. he's either panicked
'cause he's our shooter. or...
Yeah. or he's panicked
'cause he knows who he is.
Why did Marge like him?
Wife died of cancer
two months ago.
Explains the state of the house.
Dead flowers.
I'm gonna take another
run at him solo.
Do it.
Why the omelette?
You ordered the same
thing every night.
and you hated it every night.
So why that omelette?
It... it was my wife's order.
You went to that diner together.
And Marge knew her.
Marge liked her.
Everyone liked my wife.
What did you write in
that notebook. Neal?
What is this? Why the
hell are you asking me?
I'm trying to understand you.
You're accusing
me of mass murder.
and you care what I wrote
in my damn notebook?
Why I eat omelettes?
Would you rather I asked
you about the murders?
I was trying to write
my wife's eulogy.
Her friends are
throwing her a memorial.
Is that what you wanna know?
Yeah. I do.
That's why you're always angry.
You know what? I don't
wanna do this anymore.
You can call in the other cop.
Yeah. I'm sorry that
you're in pain. Neal.
You don't know me.
Is that why you brought the gun?
Bring in the other cop.
Did you bring the gun
because your wife is gone
and you can't write that eulogy?
I'll talk to the other
cop. I'm not talk...
What were you gonna
do with the gun. Neal?
What do you think?
Oh. God.
You clearly know. so why
the hell are you asking me?
What's the point?
You were gonna
take your own life.
But I couldn't.
- You didn't kill those people.
Oh. God. no. of course not.
Who killed those people. Neal?
Who killed those people?
Why... why didn't
you go to the police?
Why didn't you report it?
Why didn't you go to the police?
- I can't talk.
- Why not?
- I can't.
Why not?
I didn't wanna die anymore.
I saw what happened to
them. and it was awful.
I didn't want it to be me.
- I won't let it be you.
- I don't wanna die.
Neal. I'm not gonna let
anything happen to you.
My wife.
My wife would have
wanted me to live.
Yes. your wife would
have wanted you to live.
Neal. look at me. Look at me.
You're right. I don't know
you. and you don't know me.
but I promise you. I will not
let anything happen to you.
Please.
tell me what I missed.
Who killed those people. Neal?
What did I miss?
He talked?
It was Marge's husband.
For the birthday girl.
Neal knew Jeff and Marge well.
He would often see
them at the diner.
He said they weren't
doing well for a while.
Thought they had money problems.
something about Jeff not
being able to hold down a job
and Marge being mad at him.
which she hid very well.
Now. according to Neal.
the night of the
shooting. Jeff shows up.
He makes a beeline for Marge.
He starts yelling at
her. Things escalate.
Marge pushes him. and he pulls
the gun and starts shooting.
Jesus.
All this over marital issues.
I don't know.
Neal said that Jeff was
screaming "How dare you."
Basco. he only pulled that
piece to defend everybody.
So why didn't Neal report it?
Jeff chased him. firing.
screaming. "You're a dead man."
Neal realized he
didn't wanna die.
Guy was just scared.
Mm-hmm. Neal hid.
treated himself.
and just hoped the whole
case would get solved
without him being involved.
Huh.
I don't think that Jeff
knows Neal's address.
For all we know. he's
still looking for him.
Jeff's last LKA is three
blocks from the diner.
He's got one
vehicle. a GMC truck.
Get it all in front of Chapman.
Push for a no-knock. Let's go.
- All right.
Chicago PD!
Clear.
One. two...
Three. two. one.
Drop it! Drop it!
Kim?
I'm good.
He's down.
5021 Ida. Offender down.
Roll the crime lab.
Robbery Homicide ID'd the
cash In those duffels.
It matches the serial numbers
for a recent bank robbery
gone wrong in Gary.
Single offender.
matches Jeff's stats.
killed a teller.
So Jeff had about 100
grand in gambling debts
that he was hiding from Marge.
Marge found out
about the robbery.
Yeah. and she was
gonna turn him in.
12th District has
a 911 phone call
from an anonymous female source
the day of the diner shooting.
She hung up before she
said the robber's name.
but I heard the tape.
That was Marge.
Jeff found out somehow.
came to the diner
to confront her.
And started shooting.
So all those people are gone
because one man was broke.
I'll get started on the paper.
Good work.
Deputy Chief?
Yes. thank you. it
was a tough one.
I appreciate it.
Uh. yeah. no. no. I'm almost
done with that report.
Sure thing.
I can have that
curriculum on your desk
first thing in the morning.
I just got this email
from Deputy Chief Reid.
He wants me to write
up a massive new
OCD training program
and then implement it.
and it's due by the
end of next week.
Wait. that's when the
guest list is due.
You send yours over
to the planner?
No. not yet.
I'm at something like
80 people. give or take.
Give or take?
Who are you not inviting?
Hey. Caeli.
No. I'm sorry to hear that.
I mean. I think that's right.
We might have to have
your mom check that one.
I hate fractions.
You're never gonna
use that in real life.
So why do I have to do them?
Because they're on
the test. Bumblebee.
and you gotta pass the test.
I see that. Mack.
This is Adam.
Hey. Mike.
Well. what's wrong with him?
Yeah. no. I understand.
I understand.
I'll talk to him.
I just...
yeah. well. how
is he doing today?
All right. I appreciate it.
Yeah. I'll see you tomorrow.
Thank you. Mike.
Dad wants a new room.
Uh. you got him the
best room there.
Yeah. well.
he wants to be back in
the room with a view
of the palm trees.
Oh. he still thinks
he's in Florida?
Yeah.
- Hey. baby.
- Hey.
Hey. you finish your paperwork?
Yeah.
Mack asleep?
Yeah. yeah. and I
emailed the planner.
She said there's no way we're
fitting 120 in the backyard.
so we're gonna have to
make some brutal cuts.
Uh. listen.
Jessica is gonna be
here in 20 minutes.
Right now? Why?
She's staying the weekend.
Why?
Because we're not gonna be here.
I booked us a room
at the Langham.
Downtown?
Yeah.
We're getting married. so.
But not at the Langham.
No. not at the Langham.
No. Oh. my God.
Mack would kill us.
Oh. God. Um...
what I'm...
listen. what I mean is
we're planning this wedding.
and we're getting married.
and I just got promoted.
I made detective.
I don't want my memories
of this period of my life
to be of stress... our life.
- Yeah.
Well. it's been a lot.
Yeah. but it's okay.
A lot's fine. It's... it's life.
We're good.
You and I. we're really good.
Mm-hmm.
But I don't wanna miss things.
because I feel like
I'm missing things.
Just let me get this
straight real quick.
Yeah?
Did you get us a saucy weekend
in an overpriced hotel downtown?
I did. yeah.
And how many minutes
until Jessica gets here?
Oh. I feel like we
could make 20 work.
I think so.
Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-